AWS Machine Learning Competency
Service Offering Validation Checklist
March 2024 - 5.0
Self-assessment Spreadsheet
Introduction
The goal of the AWS Specialization Programs is to recognize AWS Partner Network Partners (“AWS Partners”) who demonstrate and maintain technical proficiency
and proven customer success in specialized AWS Partner solution areas. The AWS Competency Partner Validation Checklist (“Checklist”) is intended for AWS Partners
who are interested in applying for an AWS Specialization. This Checklist provides the criteria necessary to achieve the specialization as a consulting partner. AWS Partners undergo a technical validation of their capabilities upon applying for a specific specialization. AWS leverages
in-house expertise and a third-party firm to facilitate the technical validation. AWS reserves the right to make changes to this document at any time and without notice.
Expectation of Parties
It is expected that AWS Partners will review this document in detail before applying for the AWS Competency Program, even if all of the prerequisites are met.
If items in this document are unclear and require further explanation, please contact your AWS Partner Development Representative (“PDR”)
or AWS Partner Development Manager “(PDM”) as the first step. Your PDR/PDM will contact the program office if further assistance is required.
AWS Partners should complete the Self-Assessment Spreadsheet linked at the top of this page, prior to submitting a program application. Once completed, AWS Partners must submit an application in APN Partner Central. Visit the AWS Competency Program guide for step-by-step instructions on how to submit an application.
AWS will review and aim to respond back with any questions within five business days to initiate scheduling of your technical validation or to request additional information.
AWS Partners should prepare for the technical validation by reading the Checklist, completing a self-assessment using the Checklist, and gathering and organizing objective evidence to share with the reviewer on the day of the technical validation.
AWS recommends that AWS Partners have individuals who are able to speak in-depth to the requirements and the customer examples during the technical validation. The best practice is for the AWS Partner to make the following personnel available for the technical validation: one or more highly-technical AWS certified engineers/architects in the area of competency specialty, an operations manager who is responsible for the operations and support elements, and a business development executive to conduct the overview presentation.
AWS may revoke an AWS Partner’s Competency designation if, at any time, AWS determines in its sole discretion that such AWS Partner does not meet its AWS Competency Program requirements.
If an AWS Partner’s AWS Competency designation is revoked, such AWS Partner will (i) no longer receive benefits associated with its designation, (ii) immediately cease use of all materials provided to it in connection with the applicable AWS Competency designation and (ii) immediately cease to identify itself as a member of the AWS Competency.
AWS Partners should ensure that they have the necessary consents to share with the auditor (whether AWS or a third-party) all information contained within the objective evidence or any demonstrations prior to scheduling the audit.
AWS Machine Learning Competency Definition
AWS Machine Learning (“ML”) Competency Includes AWS Partners have demonstrated the ability to help large
organizations solve the most challenging problems in AI including work around data engineering, data science,
machine and deep learning and production deployment for inference at scale. By attaining the AWS ML
Competency, you are demonstrating to our customers that you have deep expertise in AI on the AWS platform
and have delivered solutions seamlessly in the AWS Cloud environment.
Machine Learning Operations Includes AWS Partners who have demonstrated
expertise in creating continuous integration and continuous deployment solutions for machine learning models.
The demonstrated expertise must encompass the entire data lifecycle, including data lake creation, automated
data preprocessing, deployment in the cloud, and machine-learning-specific rules and processes for model redeployment.
Must have a brand-specific point of view on the data model development lifecycle.
Applied AI Includes AWS Partners who develop, deploy, and maintain best-in-class
machine learning applications that positively impact customer business outcomes. They must add value on top of AWS services,
in particular AWS AI Services, to solve specific customer needs. ML is essential to their success and without ML
capabilities they would provide limited value.
Requirements Overview
The subsequent sections of this document define the requirements for AWS Partners to achieve the AWS Machine Learning Competency designation. These requirements are broken down into the following categories:
AWS Machine Learning Competency Program Prerequisites - These requirements will be validated by the AWS Competency program team before scheduling a technical validation.
Common AWS Partner Practice Requirements - These requirements validate the mechanisms and organizational practices in place to ensure the AWS Partner is able to consistently deliver high quality customer outcomes for AWS projects.
Machine Learning Practice Requirements - These requirements validate the AWS Partner's overall capabilities related to delivering Machine Learning solutions for customers on AWS.
Common Customer Example Requirements - These requirements validate that the architectural designs and implementation details of each of the provided customer examples follow best practices defined in the AWS documentation and other resources such as the AWS Well-Architected Framework. Use technical calibration guide for control-by-control best practices and example responses.
Machine Learning Customer Example Requirements - These requirements validate whether the provided customer examples demonstrate Machine Learning-specific best practices and align with the target customer use cases for this AWS Competency.
AWS Machine Learning Competency Program Prerequisites
The following items will be validated by the AWS Competency Program Manager; missing or incomplete information must be addressed prior to scheduling of the technical validation.
1.0APN Program Membership
1.1Program Guidelines
The AWS Partner must read the Program Guidelines and Definitions before applying to the Machine Learning Competency Program. Click here for Program details.
1.2Services Path Membership
Partner must be at the Validated or Differentiated stage within the Services Path. Partners should talk to their PDR/PDM about how to join the Services Path.
1.3AWS Partner Tier
Partner must be an AWS Advanced or Premier Tier Partner.
2.0Example AWS Customer Deployments
2.1Production AWS Customer Case Studies
AWS Partner must privately share with AWS details about four (4) unique examples of Machine Learning projects executed for four (4) unique AWS customers. Each case study must demonstrate how the partner offering was used by a customer to solve a specific Machine Learning customer challenge using AWS.
In addition to the required case study details provided in AWS Partner Central, the partner must also provide architecture diagrams of the specific customer deployment and information listed in the technical requirements sections of this validation checklist.
The information provided for these case studies will be used by AWS for validation purposes only. AWS Partner is not required to publish these details publicly.
AWS Partner can reuse the same case study across different AWS Specialization designations as long as the case study and implementation scope are relevant to those designations. The partner should make
sure the existing case study clearly explains the relevance to each designation they are applying for.
In cases where a case study is used across multiple AWS Partner Specialization applications, the partner must attach a completed self-assessment spreadsheet for each Specialization with all service-specific details provided.
AWS will accept one case study per customer. Each customer must be a separate legal entity to qualify. The partner may use an example for an internal or affiliate company of the partner if the offering is available to outside customers.
All case studies must describe deployments that have been performed within the past 18 months and must be for projects that are in production with customers, rather than in a ‘pilot’ or proof of concept stage.
All case studies provided will be examined in the Documentation Review of the Technical Validation. The partner offering will be removed from consideration if the partner cannot provide the documentation necessary to assess all case studies against each relevant validation checklist item, or if any of the validation checklist items are not met.
2.2Publicly Available Case Studies
At least two (2) of the provided case studies must be publicly available examples describing how the AWS Partner used AWS to help solve a specific customer challenge related to Machine Learning. These publicly available examples may be in the form of formal customer case studies, white papers, videos, or blog posts. The partner will provide the publicly available URL (published by the partner) in the AWS Partner Central "Case Study URL' field, which must include the following details:
AWS Customer name
AWS Partner name
AWS Customer challenge that aligns with the scope of the competency and selected category
Using both high-level and technical details, describe how AWS was leveraged as part of the AWS Partner solution
Outcome(s) and/or quantitative results
Anonymized Public Case Studies
In cases where the partner cannot publicly name customers due to the sensitive nature of the customer engagements, the partner may choose to anonymize the public case study. Anonymized public case
study details will be published by AWS, but the customer name will remain private. The partner must provide the AWS Customer name in the ‘Company name’ field of the AWS Partner Central case study for
validation purposes, but it will not be published by AWS. The case study fields that will be published to Partner Solutions Finder (PSF) by AWS include the ‘Title’, ‘Case Study Description’, and ‘Case Study URL’.
The partner will provide the publicly available URL (published by the partner) in the AWS Partner Central‘Case Study URL’ field, which must include the following details:
AWS Customer description (e.g. a top 5 US retailer, a Fortune 500 financial institution, etc.)
AWS Partner name
AWS Customer challenge that aligns with the scope of the competency and selected category
Using both high-level and technical details, describe how AWS was leveraged as part of the AWS Partner solution
Outcome(s) and/or quantitative results
For best practice on how to write an accepted Public case study, see the Public Case Study Guide.
3.0AWS Partner Self-Assessment
3.1AWS Partner Self-Assessment
AWS Partner must conduct a self-assessment of their compliance to the requirements of the AWS Machine Learning Consulting Partner Validation Checklist. A version of this checklist is available in spreadsheet format. Links to the appropriate Self-Assessment Spreadsheet can be found at the top of this page.
AWS Partner must complete all sections of the Self-Assessment Spreadsheet. For competency with multiple categories, AWS Partners will fill in details for the chosen application Category and mark other Categories as N/A.
Completed Self-Assessment Spreadsheet must be uploaded at the time of submitting an application in APN Partner Central.
It is recommended that AWS Partner have their AWS Partner Solution Architect, Partner Development Representative (PDR), or Partner Development Manager (PDM) review the completed Self-Assessment Spreadsheet before submitting to AWS. The purpose of this is to ensure the AWS Partner’s AWS team is engaged and working to provide recommendations prior to the validation and to help ensure a positive validation experience.
4.0ML Prerequisites
4.1Review ML use case qualification
AWS Partner is aware and has read the ML use case qualification and technical calibration guide.
Common AWS Partner Practice Requirements
The following requirements validate the mechanisms and organizational practices in place to ensure the AWS Partner is able to consistently deliver high quality customer outcomes for AWS projects. This section of the requirements are WAIVED if the associated offering has an approved Service Offering Foundational Technical Review OR if the AWS Partner has achieved another AWS Services Competency within the last 12 months.
Machine Learning Practice Overview
POV-001 - Customer Presentation
AWS Partner has a company overview presentation that sets the stage for customer conversations about their AWS Machine Learning capabilities and showcases AWS Partner’s demonstration capabilities.
Presentation contains information about the AWS Partner’s AWS Machine Learning capabilities, including AWS specific differentiators, e.g., what is unique about the AWS Partner’s practice that can only be accomplished leveraging AWS.
Overview presentations contain:
Company history
Office locations
Number of employees
Customer profile, including number, size, and industries of customers
Overview of Machine Learning practice
Notable AWS projects
Please provide the following as evidence:
Delivery of presentation by a business development executive at the beginning of the validation session. This should be limited to 15 minutes.
POV-002 - Maintaining AWS Expertise
AWS Partner has internal mechanisms for maintaining their consultants' expertise on Machine Learning-related AWS services and tools.
Please provide the following as evidence:
List of internal and/or external AWS-focused education events lead by AWS Partner staff (e.g. formal training, lunch and learns, meetups, user groups, etc.) in last 12 months.
Resources provided by AWS Partner to staff for ongoing AWS skills development
POV-003 - AWS Partner Solution Selling
AWS Partner must describe how Machine Learning opportunities are identified, how their sellers are trained to identify and sell those opportunities, and specific demand generation/lead generation efforts associated to their AWS Machine Learning practice.
Please provide the following as evidence:
A description on how the AWS Partner engages with customers, their internal sellers, and AWS sellers if applicable.
POV-004 - AWS Sales Engagement
AWS Partner must describe how and when they engage with AWS sellers and AWS Solutions Architects.
Please provide the following as evidence:
A verbal description for how and when they engage AWS sellers or AWS Solutions Architects on an opportunity or in the form of a demonstration of the AWS Opportunity Management tool in AWS Partner Central with sales qualified opportunities submitted (sales qualified = budget, authority, need, timeline, and competition fields completed).
POV-005 - Training for Internal Personnel
AWS Partner must have a process to ensure that there are sufficient Machine Learning trained personnel to effectively support customers.
Please provide the following as evidence:
An established training plan including on-boarding processes that identify job roles (sellers, solutions architects, project managers) and required training paths
A verbal description of methods used to allocate required resources to Machine Learning projects
AWS Partner Delivery Model
PRJ-001 - Expected Outcomes
AWS Partner has processes for working with customers to determine and define expected outcomes associated with the projects.
Please provide the following as evidence:
Project deliverable templates or other resources used for project scoping and definition
PRJ-002 - Scope
AWS Partner has processes to determine scope of work with specific criteria defining customer project with expected deliverables.
Please provide the following as evidence:
Project templates or other resources(e.g. RACI Matrix) used for project scoping and definition
PRJ-003 - Statement of Work
AWS Partner has standard Statement of Work (SOW) templates for Machine Learning projects that can be customized to customer needs.
Please provide the following as evidence:
Default SOW template
PRJ-004 - Project Manager
AWS Partner assigns Project Manager to each project to ensure project remains on time and within budget.
Please provide the following as evidence:
Documentation to show that Project Managers were assigned to each of the 4 customer example projects.
PRJ-005 - Change Management
AWS Partner has processes to document, manage, and respond to requests for changes to the project scope.
Please provide the following as evidence:
Documentation of change management practices
Customer Satisfaction
CSN-001 - Customer Acceptance for Projects
AWS Partner has a customer acceptance process.
Please provide the following as evidence:
Example customer training documents
SOW language describing handoff responsibilities and acceptance criteria
CSN-002 - Customer Satisfaction Aligned to Project Milestones
AWS Partner implements customer satisfaction checkpoints as part of the project plan.
Please provide the following as evidence:
Project plan and customer satisfaction results for milestone-defined checkpoints
Machine Learning Practice Requirements
The following requirements apply to AWS Partners' Machine Learning Practice.
General Machine Learning Requirements
PROPE-001 - AWS Partner Engagement with Customers
AWS Partner can describe whether their AWS ML practice delivers only project-based work, and hands off final solution to end customer per terms of the Statement of Work.
or
AWS Partner delivers project-based work and retains contractual obligation to the customer to manage and operate ML workloads.
Evidence must be in the form of a verbal description or evidence of AWS Partner engagement model (e.g., SOWs, SLAs, or MSP contracts) for the customer references submitted to meet the Competency prerequisites.
PROPE-002 - MSP Program Participation and ML-Specific Differences
Approved MSP Partners are subject to a rigorous onsite technical validation covering the full customer engagement lifecycle and are therefore eligible for waiver of a number of requirements in the following sections.
If AWS Partner manages workloads and is an approved AWS MSP Partner, AWS Partner must describe any differences in their practice as it pertains to supporting ML workloads on an ongoing basis.
Evidence must be in the form of a document listing unique considerations for managing ML environments.
Note: Compliance with this requirement allows AWS Partner to claim a waiver for all requirements listed in this Checklist as “Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.”
PROPE-003 - Customer Handoff and Acceptance for ML Projects (for non-MSP Partners)
If AWS Partner performs SOW-only work, AWS Partner can describe each phase of the customer handoff and acceptance process.
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description, customer training documents, and/or SOW language describing handoff responsibilities.
PROPE-004 - ML Training for Internal Personnel
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner has a process to ensure that there are sufficient ML trained personnel to effectively support customers.
Evidence must be in the form of:
An established training plan including on-boarding processes that identify job roles (sellers, solutions architects, project managers) and required training paths
A verbal description of methods used to allocate required resources to ML projects
PROPE-005 - Disaster Recovery Planning and Testing
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner demonstrates evidence of disaster recovery planning.
Evidence must be in the form of a documented disaster recovery process, with evidence of testing within the last 12 months.
Evidence of current ISO 22301 certification provides exemption.
PROPE-006 - ML-specific Disaster Recovery Considerations
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner has incorporated ML-specific disaster recovery considerations into disaster recovery planning (e.g., edge device management, backup, etc.).
Evidence must be in the form of ML-specific disaster recovery considerations especially for downstream services such as Amazon EC2 and that those services follow best disaster recovery practices.
PROPE-007 - Deployment Checklist
AWS Partner uses consistent processes (e.g., checklists) to know when ready to go live with a workload.
Evidence must be in the form of completed checklists leveraged for ML solutions.
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PROPE-008 - Runbooks/Playbooks
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner uses runbooks that document routine activities and playbooks that guide the issue resolution process.
Evidence must be in the form of runbooks/playbooks for relevant components of ML solutions.
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PROPE-009 - Automation through Scripting
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner leverages scripting and tagging to automate execution of runbooks if/where applicable.
Evidence must be in the form of script library/demonstration.
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PROPE-010 - Metrics and Performance Dashboards
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner leverages metrics and performance dashboards to measure operational health. (e.g. Amazon CloudWatch Logs, Amazon Elasticsearch Service, Personal Health Dashboard, AWS Service Health Dashboard).
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description and demonstration of operational health metrics/dashboard.
PROPE-011 - Planned and Unplanned Event Planning
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner has a process to anticipate operational events, both planned (for example, sales promotions, deployments, and failure tests) and unplanned (for example, surges in utilization and component failures).
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description with examples of both planned and unplanned events that impacted ML practice.
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PROPE-012 - ML Operations - Event, Incident, and Problem Management
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner has event, incident, and problem management processes, including escalation paths and root cause analysis.
Evidence must be in the form of AWS Partner demonstration of how events are captured, allocated, escalated, and managed to closure.
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PROPE-013 - Lessons Learned
AWS Partner demonstrates that lessons learned from each deployment are documented and shared across teams to share the benefits of those lessons.
Evidence must be in the form of lessons-learned documentation.
PRSEC-001 - Detective Controls
Activity is monitored appropriately, including by maintenance of logs for capturing performance and security event data, for example CloudWatch Logs, events, VPC Flow Logs, Elastic Load Balancing logs, Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) bucket logs, etc.
Evidence must be in the form of an example of logs maintained, including demonstration that logs are retained per customer-agreed retention periods.
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PRSEC-002 - Protection of Internal Systems from Attacks
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner has established security policies and procedures to monitor and protect its own systems from attacks.
Evidence must be in the form of security policies and procedures; may also be in the form of current industry certification related to information security (e.g., ISO 27001) or proof of infrastructure security and information security management processes and associated approvals.
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PRSEC-003 - Protection of Customer Systems from Attacks
AWS Partner has security policies and procedures to protect its customers’ systems from attacks.
Evidence must be in the form of security policies and procedures; may also be in the form of industry certification related to information security management (e.g., ISO 27001).
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PRSEC-004 - Communication of Security Best Practices
AWS Partner ensures customers understand AWS security processes and technologies as outlined in Security Pillar of AWS Well-Architected Framework.
Evidence must be in the form of onboarding and educational documents provided to customers that specifically cover customer security considerations in the AWS Partner’s environment
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PRSEC-005 - Data Encryption
Customer contact and business/personal information is encrypted on all Partner systems including AWS Partner, billing, and ticketing systems.
Evidence must be in the form of documentation of customer information storing systems with proof of encryption.
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PRREL-001 - Service Availability
AWS Partner has process to determine service availability needs for customers.
See AWS Reliability Pillar whitepaper for specific considerations and guidance on how to calculate service availability with downstream dependencies.
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description and/or process documentation.
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PRREL-002 - Network Capacity
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner plans network topology for IP-based networks to account for future growth and compatible addressing structures.
Evidence must be in the form of network growth considerations leveraged for an existing ML customer.
PRREL-003 - Network Resiliency
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner plans network topology to ensure the resiliency of connectivity including planning for DoS attacks, unexpected increase in traffic, or removal of connectivity due to misconfiguration errors.
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description and/or process documentation.
PRREL-004 - Application Availability
AWS Partner designs applications according to customer needs, factoring in cost of building/maintaining that application to the desired availability levels.
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description and/or partner documentation leveraged in design process.
PRREL-005 - Service Interruption
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner understands and has processes to automatically remediate common causes of service interruption including but not limited to: hardware failure, deployment failure, load induced interruptions, data induced interruptions, credential expiration, failure of dependent services, infrastructure availability related to power or environmental sources, and/or identifier exhaustion (exceeding available capacity).
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description how these interruptions are accounted for in customer designs, with description of automated remediation that has been established.
PRREL-006 - Testing for Availability
AWS Partner uses testing to ensure availability goals are met. This can include, but is not limited to: unit testing, load testing, and performance testing, while simulating failure modes while under these tests. Testing should account for dependency unavailability and deployment failures.
Evidence must be in the form of description of testing and results compared to committed application availability of the application or service.
PRREL-007 - Root Cause Analysis
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner conducts Root Cause Analysis on failures based on significant events to evaluate the architecture.
Evidence must be in the form of records of root cause analysis for previous failure with resulting architectural recommendations.
PRCOP-001 - Service and Pricing Models
AWS Partner considers cost when selecting AWS services, including optimizing by using the most appropriate services and by selecting the appropriate pricing models to meet cost targets, including by the use of Reserved Instances and Spot Instances and by factoring costs into Region selections.
Evidence must be in the form of a description of how services and price models are selected for cost optimization.
PRCOP-002 - Supply and Demand
AWS Partner ensures that capacity matches but does not exceed what is needed, including by using a demand-based, buffer-based, or time-based approach.
This includes testing for data usage at scale, to account for larger deployments.
Evidence must be in the form of a description of capacity planning activities, including testing for demand at scale.
PRCOP-003 - Payload Size
For IoT and Component ML Implementations AWS Partner has made a "Cost Optimization" effect to ensure the smallest possible payload size.
Evidence must be in the form of an evaluation of expected payload costs by month with best known data volume expectations.
PRCOP-004 - Bandwidth Costs
For IoT and Component ML Implementations AWS Partner solutions are designed to keep bandwidth and message costs down by eliminating unnecessary messaging.
Evidence must be in the form of an evaluation of expected payload costs by month with best known data volume expectations.
PRCOP-005 - Data Transfer
For IoT and Component ML Implementations AWS Partner architects to optimize data transfer, using application design, WAN acceleration, Multi-AZ, Region selection, etc.
Evidence must be in the form of an evaluation of expected payload costs by month with best known data volume expectations.
PRCOP-006 - Usage and Spend Awareness
AWS Partner leverages billing and cost management tools to monitor usage and spend.
Evidence must be in the form of a demonstration of billing and cost management tools used.
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
PRCOP-007 - Cost Review and Improvement
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner has established a regular cadence to review internal performance and provide recommendations for improvement. Internal optimization involves looking for efficiencies within the AWS Partner’s operations that result in financial efficiencies, process efficiencies, and/or greater customer satisfaction.
Evidence must be in the form of explanation of internal review cadence, and any efficiencies implemented as part of the process (e.g., billing alerts, etc.).
Waived if AWS Partner is approved AWS MSP.
Common Customer Example Requirements
All of the following requirements must be met by at least one of the four submitted customer examples. See specific evidence for each control. Refer to calibration guide for example responses.
Documentation
Requirements in this category relate to the documentation provided for each customer example.
DOC-001 - Provide Architecture diagram designed with scalability and high availability
AWS Partner must submit architecture diagrams depicting the overall design and deployment of its AWS Partner solution on AWS as well as any other relevant details of the solution for the specific customer in question.
The submitted diagrams are intended to provide context to the AWS Solutions Architect conducting the Technical Validation. It is critical to provide clear diagrams with an appropriate level of detail that enable the AWS Solutions Architect to validate the other requirements listed below.
Each architecture diagram must show:
All of the AWS services used
How the AWS services are deployed, including virtual private clouds (VPCs), availability zones, subnets, and connections to systems outside of AWS.
Elements deployed outside of AWS, e.g. on-premises components, or hardware devices.
how design scales automatically - Solution adapts to changes in demand. The architecture uses services that automatically scale such as Amazon S3, Amazon CloudFront, AWS Auto Scaling, and AWS Lambda.
how design has high availability with multi-AZ or multi-region deployment. When intentional tradeoffs have been made (e.g. to optimize cost in favor of high availability), please explain the customer's requirements.
Please provide the following as evidence (required for all provided customer examples):
An architecture diagram depicting the overall design and deployment of your solution on AWS.
Explanation of how the major solutions elements will keep running in case of failure.
Description of how the major solutions elements scale up automatically.
Secure Customer AWS Account Governance and Access
Any AWS accounts created by the AWS Partner on behalf of the customer or AWS accounts that the AWS Partner administers as part of the engagement must meet the following requirements.
ACCT-001 - Define Secure AWS Account Governance Best Practice
AWS expects all Services Partners to be prepared to create AWS accounts and implement basic security best practices. Even if most of your customer engagements do not require this, you should be prepared in the event you work with a customer who needs you to create new accounts for them.
Establish internal processes regarding how to create AWS accounts on behalf of customers when needed, including:
When to use root account for workload activities
Enable MFA on root
Set the contact information to corporate email address or phone number
Enable CloudTrail logs in all region and protect CloudTrail logs from accidental deletion with a dedicated S3 bucket
Please provide the following as evidence:
Documents describing Security engagement SOPs which met all the 4 criteria defined above. Acceptable evidence types are security training documents, internal wikis, or standard operating procedures documents.
Description of how Secure AWS Account Governance is implemented in one (1) of the submitted customer examples.
ACCT-002 - Define identity security best practice on how to access customer environment by leveraging IAM
Define standard approach to access customer-owned AWS accounts, including:
Both AWS Management Console access and programmatic access using the AWS Command Line Interface or other custom tools.
When and how to use temporary credentials such as IAM roles
Leverage customer's existing enterprise user identities and their credentials to access AWS services through Identity Federation or migrating to AWS Managed Active Directory
Establish best practices around
AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) and other identity and access management systems, including:
IAM principals are only granted the minimum privileges necessary. Wildcards in Action and Resource elements should be avoided as much as possible.
Every AWS Partner individual who accesses an AWS account must do so using dedicated credentials
Please provide the following as evidence:
Security engagement Standard Operation Procedure (SOP) which met all the 2 criteria defined above. Acceptable evidence types are: security training documents, internal wikis, standard operating procedures documents. Written descriptions in the self-assessment excel is not acceptable.
Description of how IAM best practices are implemented in one (1) of the submitted customer examples.
Operational Excellence
Requirements in this category relate to the ability of the AWS Partner and the customer to run and monitor systems to deliver business value and to continually improve supporting processes and procedures.
OPE-001 - Define, monitor and analyze customer workload health KPIs
AWS Partner has defined metrics for determining the health of each component of the workload and provided the customer with guidance on how to detect operational events based on these metrics.
Establish the capability to run, monitor and improve operational procedure by:
Defining, collecting and analyzing workload health metrics w/AWS services or 3rd Party tool
Exporting standard application logs that capture errors and aid in troubleshooting and response to operational events.
Defining threshold of operational metrics to generate alert for any issues
Please provide the following as evidence:
Standardized documents or guidance on how to develop customer workload health KPIs with the three components above
Description of how workload health KPIs are implemented in (1) of the submitted customer examples.
OPE-002 - Define a customer runbook/playbook to guide operational tasks
Create a runbook to document routine activities and guide issue resolution process with a list of operational tasks and troubleshooting scenarios covered that specifically addresses the KPI metrics defined in OPE-001.
Please provide the following as evidence:
Standardized documents or runbook met the criteria defined above.
OPE-003 - Use consistent processes (e.g. checklist) to assess deployment readiness
Deployments are tested or otherwise validated before being applied to the production environment. For example, DevOps pipelines used for the project for provisioning resources or releasing software and applications.
Use a consistent approach to deploy to customers including:
A well-defined testing process before launching in production environment
Automated testing components
Please provide the following as evidence:
A deployment checklist example or written descriptions met all the criteria defined above.
Security - Networking
Requirements in this category focus on security best practices for Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) and other network security considerations.
NETSEC-001 - Define security best practices for Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) and other network security considerations.
Establish internal processes regarding how to secure traffic within VPC, including:
Security Groups to restrict traffic between Internet and Amazon VPC
Security Groups to restrict traffic within the Amazon VPC
Network ACL to restrict inbound and outbound traffic
Other AWS security services to protect network security
Please provide the following as evidence:
Written descriptions/documents on network security best practices met the criteria defined above.
Description of how network security is implementation in one (1) of the submitted customer examples.
NETSEC-002 - Define data encryption policy for data at rest and in transit
Establish internal processes regarding a data encryption policy used across all customer projects
Summary of any endpoints exposed to the Internet and how traffic is encrypted
Summary of processes that make requests to external endpoints over the Internet and how traffic is encrypted
Enforcing encryption at rest. By default you should enable the native encryption features in an AWS service that stores data unless there is a reason not to.
All cryptographic keys are stored and managed using a dedicated key management solution
Please provide the following as evidence:
Data encryption and key management policy met the criteria defined above.
Description of how data encryption is implementation in one (1) of the submitted customer examples.
Reliability
Requirements in this section focus on the ability of the AWS Partner solution to prevent, and quickly recover from failures to meet business and customer demand.
REL-001 - Automate Deployment and leverage infrastructure-as-code tools.
Changes to infrastructure are automated for customer implementation
Tools like AWS CloudFormation, the AWS CLI, or other scripting tools were used for automation.
Changes to the production environment were not done using the AWS Management Console.
Please provide the following as evidence:
Written description of deployment automation and an example template (e.g., CloudFormation templates, architecture diagram for CI/CD pipeline) met the criteria defined above.
REL-002 - Plan for disaster recovery and recommend Recoverty Time Objective (RTO) and Recoverty Point Objective (RPO).
Incorporate resilience discussion and advise a RTO&PRO target when engaging with customer. Customer acceptance and adoption on RTO/RPO is not required.
Establish a process to establish workload resilience including:
RTO & RPO target
Explanation of the recovery process for the core components of the architecture
Customer awareness and communication on this topic
Please provide the following as evidence:
Descriptions or documents on workload resilience guidance met the three criteria defined above
Description of how resilience is implementation in one (1) of the submitted customer examples including reasons for exception when RTO&RPO is not defined
Cost Optimization
Requirements in this category relate to the AWS Partner's ability to help customers run systems that deliver business value at the lowest price point.
COST-001 - Develop total cost of ownership analysis or cost modelling
Determine solution costs using right sizing and right pricing for both technical and business justification.
Conducted TCO analysis or other form of cost modelling to provide the customer with an understanding of the ongoing costs including all the following 3 areas:
Description of the inputs used to estimate the cost of the solution
Summary of the estimates or cost model provided to the customer before implementation
Business value analysis or value stream mapping of AWS solution
Please provide the following as evidence:
Description of how to develop cost analysis or modeling with the critical components defined above
Cost analysis example in one (1) of the submitted customer examples. Acceptable evidence types are: price calculator link, reports or presentations on business values analysis
Machine Learning Customer Example Requirements
The following requirements apply to the customer examples.
Leverage AWS ML Calibration Guide Resources
RES-001 - Review ML use case fit and calibration guide
AWS Partner is aware and has read the ML use case qualification and technical calibration guide.
Requirements applicable to all customer examples
EXCE-001 - Notebook Use Case
At least one fully-developed sample use case, in Jupyter notebook form, illustrating an end
to end solution to a customer-sourced problem must be submitted. This could include the use of a publicly
available dataset and should cover all aspects such as data ingestion, data visualization and
cleaning, feature engineering (as applicable), model selection, model training, A/B testing,
parameter tuning and deployment.
EXCE-002 - ML Specific Customer Example Criteria
The ML Competency is intended to identify and promote AWS Partners who help customers solve the most challenge AI problems.
As a result, the following are guidelines for valid ML projects.
All customer examples must be able to describe the full lifecycle of ML development, including:
Opportunity definition including ROI methodology for project selection.
A comprehensive articulation of the problem and why/how machine learning can add value (i.e. automation efficiencies).
Demonstration of the ability and a methodology to interact with customer data engineers to gather and process all manners of input data, from structured and queryable, to unstructured and streamed. This includes discovery skills to help the customer determine if the data are sufficient and relevant to solve the customers’ business problems.
Identification of toolset, algorithms and pre-trained models, if any,
Qualitative and quantitative description of the outcome.
Data management tools, including ingestion, ETL, storage and lifecycle.
Model evaluation and performance criterion (minimal acceptable loss, KPIs etc.) and its refresh strategy.
Design for Operations requirements applicable to all customer examples
EXDSGN-001 - ML Design Process - Overall Planning
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner has design process to ensure ML solution designs account for how workload will be deployed, updated, and operated.
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description and process documentation referring to specific ML customer references.
EXDSGN-002 - Business Problem Understanding and Articulation
AWS Partner has significant depth in understanding problems that customers have in specific verticals and be able to articulate back to the customer the problem in a manner where AI brings solutions, particularly new paradigms. This includes providing a set of high-impact use cases with quantified business value.
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description and process documentation referring to specific ML customer references
EXDSGN-003 - Data Gathering
AWS Partner has the ability and a methodology to interact with customer data engineers to gather and process all manners of input data, from structured and queryable, to unstructured and streamed.
They must also have discovery skills to help the customer determine if the data are sufficient and relevant to solve the customers’ business problems.
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description and process documentation referring to specific ML customer references.
EXDSGN-004 - Feature Engineering
Data gathering and feature engineering could make up more than 70% of any project. For cases where the amount of data may be large but not representative enough to make predictions, or data may be relevant but not sufficient in quantity to make predictions, AWS Partner can assess and determine whether dataset features can be derived to make a POC viable and the risk profile of the project.
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description and process documentation referring to specific ML customer references.
EXDSGN-005 - ML Design Process - Metrics
AWS Partner has implemented analytics collection that validate model and inference engine performance, service level commitments, marketing, and customer experience objectives.
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description, process documentation, and/or technology demonstrations.
EXDSGN-006 - ML Design Process - Quality Control
AWS Partner has implemented engineering practices that align with defect reduction and quick and safe fixes.
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description, process documentation, and/or technology demonstrations if applicable.
EXDSGN-007 - Iterative Improvement of models
AWS Partners must provide continuous integration of ground truth with updated models and deployment of models in accordance with a cadence required by business objectives. This includes the initial data operations on historical data, guidance on data ingestion, preparation, and feature engineering. Where any aspect of data science for a particular client requires working with outside firms the AWS Partner must demonstrate a process whereby the outsourced firm meets or exceed the exact same level of operational excellence.
EXDSGN-008 - Model Development Expertise
AWS Partner can demonstrate expertise in model development on Amazon SageMaker or other platform, internally developed or otherwise, and implements one or more of the following:
CNN - Convolutional Neural Nets
RNN - Recurrent Neural Networks / LSTM
Clustering - K-Means / t-SNE / LDA
Reinforcement Learning
Collaborative Filtering - Recommender Systems
Directed Graphical Models
Factorization Machines
GAN - Generative Adversarial Network
Interaction in the Environment - robotics / ML
Dimensionality reduction: Principal Component Analysis
Other predictive models based on data
Evidence must be in the form of verbal description and process documentation referring to specific ML customer references.
Statistical modeling alone is not acceptable.
Inventive use of AWS managed services may qualify provided the use case includes deep insight into the customer’s needs, exceptional outcomes, and that the design pattern can be replicated widely.
Performance Efficiency requirements applicable to two specific customer references
EXPERF-001 - Compute
AWS Partner to describe considerations for how they select the right AWS Compute options specifically outlining choice of instances, containers, and functions.
Evidence must be provided in the form of verbal description as it relates to two (2) of the four (4) submitted customer references.
EXPERF-002 - Storage
AWS Partner to describe considerations for how they select the right AWS Storage options specifically outlining access method, pattern of access, throughput required, frequency of access, frequency of update, and availability and durability constraints.
Evidence must be provided in the form of verbal description as it relates to two (2) of the four (4) submitted customer references.
EXPERF-003 - Database
AWS Partner to describe considerations for how they select the right AWS database options specifically outlining requirements for availability, consistency, partition tolerance, latency, durability, scalability, and query capability.
Evidence must be provided in the form of verbal description as it relates to two (2) of the four (4) submitted customer references.
EXPERF-004 - Network
For SaaS and IoT ML Implementations AWS Partner to describe considerations for how they select the right Network options specifically outlining latency, throughput requirements, and location.
Evidence must be provided in the form of verbal description as it relates to two (2) of the four (4) submitted customer references.
EXPERF-005 - Resource Review
AWS Partner has implemented a means of acquiring and preserving ground truth data for continuous improvement ML models and inference engines.
Evidence must be provided in the form of verbal description as it relates to two (2) of the four (4) submitted customer references.
EXPERF-006 - Performance Monitoring
Evidence must be provided, for each of the following cases, in the form of verbal description as it relates to two (2) of the four (4) submitted customer references.
AWS Partner uses techniques to monitor devices after deployment to test the performance and availability of a device.
For IoT and Component ML Implementations AWS Partner ensures devices can function in an offline state.
For IoT and Component ML Implementations AWS Partner conducts testing to verify device offline capabilities.
EXPERF-007 - Performance Tradeoffs
AWS Partner considers tradeoffs during design to ensure an optimal approach for the customer; this may include tradeoffs for consistency, durability, or latency, in order to deliver higher performance.
Evidence must be provided in the form of verbal description of how tradeoffs were implemented for two (2) of the four (4) submitted customer references, including for example, caching, partitioning or sharding, compression, and buffering.
Resources
AWS Specialization Program Guide
Provides step-by-step instructions when applying for an AWS Specialization.
AWS Specialization Program Benefits Guide
Provides a deeper description of the program benefits.
AWS Competency Application Process
Provides high-level visibility into the AWS Competency application process and timelines for associated process steps.
AWS Competency & SDP Common Customer Example Requirement Calibration Guide
Provides control-by-control best practices, resources to implement, good example responses.
How to build a microsite
Provides guidance on how to build a microsite to highlight your AWS Specialization.
How to build a public case study
Provides guidance on how to build a public customer case study that will showcase your success with AWS Customers.
How to build an architecture diagram
Provides guidance on how to build an architecture diagrams that will meet the prerequisites of the Program.
Well Architected Website
Learn about the Well Architected Framework and its approach.
SaaS Best Practices
Provides best practices on SaaS
Changes between previous and current versions
Change Log
Deployment Pipeline Reference Architecture
Learn about the stages and actions for different types of pipelines that exist in modern systems.